README.md, before:

strava_runmap: A Plugin for Pelican
===================================

[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/pelican-plugins/strava_runmap/main.yml?branch=main)](https://github.com/Checkroth/strava-runmap/actions)
[![PyPI Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pelican-strava_runmap)](https://pypi.org/project/pelican-strava_runmap/)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/pelican-strava_runmap)](https://pypi.org/project/pelican-strava_runmap/)
![License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/pelican-strava_runmap?color=blue)

Hooks in to Strava API to create a page of all of your historical runs in strava.

## Requirements

This plugin requires the pacakges in `requiremnets.txt` to be installed in the pelican implementation that is using this plugin.

## Installation

This plugin can (not yet) be installed via:

python -m pip install pelican-strava_runmap
As long as you have not explicitly added a `PLUGINS` setting to your Pelican settings file, then the newly-installed plugin should be automatically detected and enabled. Otherwise, you must add `strava_runmap` to your existing `PLUGINS` list. For more information, please see the [How to Use Plugins](https://docs.getpelican.com/en/latest/plugins.html#how-to-use-plugins) documentation.

## Usage

### Configuration

Environment variables / pelican configs: The following are environment variables names. They have the _same key as the environment variable name_ in `STRAVA_RUNMAP_CONFIG` in the pelican config (e.g. `STRAVA_RUNMAP_CONFIG = { "STRAVA_API_TOKEN": "abcd1234" }`
- `STRAVA_API_TOKEN`: a valid token is required to get activitiesto generate the runmap page.
- `STRAVA_ENDPOINT`: Defaults to `https://www.strava.com`, but is configurable. If you configure it, it must be:
  - A valid url scheme (start with http(s)://)
  - Not end in a slash (the plugin adds the trailing `/`)
- `STRAVA_DRY_RUN`: Evaluates to bool. Omit if it's not a dry run, fill it with anything if it is a dry run. Dry run fills with a few test images, but does not actually hit the strava API (use this if you haven't got a token yet or are repeatedly re-generating and want to speed things up and avoid getting rate-limited.)

### Setting up strava

Requires `STRAVA_API_TOKEN` environment variable when building your site. You can get this token by following the [Strava Guide].

Because this plugin does not keep track of your actual strava details (including access and refresh tokens), once the token you generate with Strava expires you will have to generate a new one via their web interface (or whatever method you prefer). If you know if a better way to do this, please feel free to submit a pull request :)

Some tips:

- You can get your key from the [strava application page] once you have set it up.
- The token is rate limited. Unless you have a HUGE amount of activities or are constantly rebuilding, you shouldn't hit it.
  - If you are doing a trial/error and want to avoid using your quota, set your config or environment variable `STRAVA_DRY_RUN=1` . This will generate a few dummy maps for layout testing and preview, without using up your quota.

### Using the Insomnia Collecion

Included in this repository is `strava_insomnia_collection` which includes some helpful requests that can be used for setup and debugging.

Just import the file in insomnia and add the following environment variables:
- `strava_domain`: Should just be `www.strava.com` unless you're doing something very special.
- `strava_api_domain`: Should be `www.strava.com/api/v3` unless you're doing something very special.
- `client_id`: from your Strava API Application
- `client_secret`: from your Strava API Application
- `refresh_token`: from your Strava API Application
- `code`: see below
- `api_token`: see below

Then, copy the URL from the `Authorization Code` request and open it in a browser (it will not work embedded in Insomnia). Click "Authorize" and you will be taken to a page error (because you probably don't have any local web server serving something -- that's fine). The URL serving this error will contain a `code` query parameter. Save that to the `code` environment variable.

Now you can hit the `Get Token` endpoint. Save the value from `access_token` in the response body to the `api_token` environment variable.

You should now be set up to use the strava API -- you can test it out by hitting some of the prepared endpoints.


Contributing
------------

Contributions are welcome and much appreciated. Every little bit helps. You can contribute by improving the documentation, adding missing features, and fixing bugs. You can also help out by reviewing and commenting on [existing issues].

To start contributing to this plugin, review the [Contributing to Pelican] documentation, beginning with the **Contributing Code** section.

### Configuring to use Locally

To test this pelican plugin with a pelican project locally, you will need to connect your local version of the plugin with your local pelical project.

This can be done by cloning this repository somewhere locally and configuring your pelican projects to include `/path/to/strava-runmap/pelican/plugins` in the `PLUGIN_PATHS` setting, and `strava_runmap` in the 
`PLUGINS` setting.

### Running Tests

All changes should pass tests. Tests can be run using pdm and invoke.

Simply run `pdm run invoke tests`

License
-------

This project is licensed under the AGPL-3.0 license.

[existing issues]: https://github.com/Checkroth/strava-runmap/issues
[Contributing to Pelican]: https://docs.getpelican.com/en/latest/contribute.html
[Strava Guide]: https://developers.strava.com/docs/getting-started/#account
[strava application page]: https://www.strava.com/settings/api

Commit message:

Updates readme and insomnia collection.
Previously, there were a few mistakes in the
configuration section of the readme, and the
stored insomnia collection would authenticate with
permissions that can't actually fetch strava
activities.
This commit fixes those.

README.md, after:

strava_runmap: A Plugin for Pelican
===================================

[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/pelican-plugins/strava_runmap/main.yml?branch=main)](https://github.com/Checkroth/strava-runmap/actions)
[![PyPI Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/pelican-strava_runmap)](https://pypi.org/project/pelican-strava_runmap/)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/pelican-strava_runmap)](https://pypi.org/project/pelican-strava_runmap/)
![License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/pelican-strava_runmap?color=blue)

Hooks in to Strava API to create a page of all of your historical runs in strava.

This repository has not yet been published to PyPI.

## Requirements

This plugin requires the pacakges in `requiremnets.txt` to be installed in the pelican implementation that is using this plugin.

## Installation

This plugin can (not yet) be installed via:

python -m pip install pelican-strava_runmap
As long as you have not explicitly added a `PLUGINS` setting to your Pelican settings file, then the newly-installed plugin should be automatically detected and enabled. Otherwise, you must add `strava_runmap` to your existing `PLUGINS` list. For more information, please see the [How to Use Plugins](https://docs.getpelican.com/en/latest/plugins.html#how-to-use-plugins) documentation.

## Usage

### Configuration

Environment variables / pelican configs: The following are environment variables names. They have the _same key as the environment variable name_ in `STRAVA_RUNMAP` in the pelican config (e.g. `STRAVA_RUNMAP = { "STRAVA_API_TOKEN": "abcd1234" }`
- `REFRESH_TOKEN`: a valid refresh token that can be used to authenticate with strava.
- `CLIENT_SECRET`: The client secret for your strava app authentication.
- `CLIENT_ID`: THe ID of your strava app. Used for authentication.
- `ACTIVITIES_ENDPOINT`: Defaults to `https://www.strava.com/api/v3/activities`, but is configurable. If you configure it, it must be:
  - A valid url scheme (start with http(s)://)
  - Not end in a slash (the plugin adds the trailing `/`)
- `AUTH_ENDPOINT`: Defaults to `https://www.strava.com/oauth/token`. The oauth endpoint for strava, if you want to test a mock or separate environment.
- `STRAVA_DRY_RUN`: Evaluates to bool. Omit if it's not a dry run, fill it with anything if it is a dry run. Dry run fills with a few test images, but does not actually hit the strava API (use this if you haven't got a token yet or are repeatedly re-generating and want to speed things up and avoid getting rate-limited.)
- `DATE_DISPLAY_FORMAT`: A valid string to pass in to the `strftime` function of a datetime object. Corresponds to the date display of each map in the runmap page.

### Setting up strava

Requires `STRAVA_API_TOKEN` environment variable when building your site. You can get this token by following the [Strava Guide].

Because this plugin does not keep track of your actual strava details (including access and refresh tokens), once the token you generate with Strava expires you will have to generate a new one via their web interface (or whatever method you prefer). If you know if a better way to do this, please feel free to submit a pull request :)

Some tips:

- You can get your key from the [strava application page] once you have set it up.
- The token is rate limited. Unless you have a HUGE amount of activities or are constantly rebuilding, you shouldn't hit it.
  - If you are doing a trial/error and want to avoid using your quota, set your config or environment variable `STRAVA_DRY_RUN=1` . This will generate a few dummy maps for layout testing and preview, without using up your quota.

### Using the Insomnia Collecion

Included in this repository is `strava_insomnia_collection` which includes some helpful requests that can be used for setup and debugging.

Just import the file in insomnia and add the following environment variables:
- `strava_domain`: Should just be `www.strava.com` unless you're doing something very special.
- `strava_api_domain`: Should be `www.strava.com/api/v3` unless you're doing something very special.
- `client_id`: from your Strava API Application
- `client_secret`: from your Strava API Application
- `refresh_token`: from your Strava API Application
- `code`: see below
- `api_token`: see below

Then, copy the URL from the `Authorization Code` request and open it in a browser (it will not work embedded in Insomnia). Click "Authorize" and you will be taken to a page error (because you probably don't have any local web server serving something -- that's fine). The URL serving this error will contain a `code` query parameter. Save that to the `code` environment variable.

Now you can hit the `Get Token` endpoint. Save the value from `access_token` in the response body to the `api_token` environment variable.

You should now be set up to use the strava API -- you can test it out by hitting some of the prepared endpoints.


Contributing
------------

Contributions are welcome and much appreciated. Every little bit helps. You can contribute by improving the documentation, adding missing features, and fixing bugs. You can also help out by reviewing and commenting on [existing issues].

To start contributing to this plugin, review the [Contributing to Pelican] documentation, beginning with the **Contributing Code** section.

### Configuring to use Locally

To test this pelican plugin with a pelican project locally, you will need to connect your local version of the plugin with your local pelical project.

This can be done by cloning this repository somewhere locally and configuring your pelican projects to include `/path/to/strava-runmap/pelican/plugins` in the `PLUGIN_PATHS` setting, and `strava_runmap` in the 
`PLUGINS` setting.

### Running Tests

All changes should pass tests. Tests can be run using pdm and invoke.

Simply run `pdm run invoke tests`

License
-------

This project is licensed under the AGPL-3.0 license.

[existing issues]: https://github.com/Checkroth/strava-runmap/issues
[Contributing to Pelican]: https://docs.getpelican.com/en/latest/contribute.html
[Strava Guide]: https://developers.strava.com/docs/getting-started/#account
[strava application page]: https://www.strava.com/settings/api
